These are random thoughts added later.

# Sine and Cosine are everywhere orthogonal

I will not be precise. We know that `cos(x), sin(x)` is orthogonal to
`cos(pi/2 + x), sin(pi/2 + x) = sin(x), -cos(x)`.

When we project sine onto cosine, at `x = 0`, we are multiplying
`cos(0)`. Also consider `pi` radians behind. This multiplies
`sin(-pi/2 + x)` and `cos(-pi/2 + x)`. That is `-cos(x)` and
`sin(x)`. So these two, when "paired" have sum of zero.

You can do this pairing across the wave. So really, what you're doing,
in a sense, is doing an infinite sum of *all* dot products of pairs of
orthogonal, rotated vectors, for every rotation.

So it is totally natural that sine and cosine waves should be
orthogonal.

# Fourier Transform Breakdown

The fourier transform projects `f` onto `e^{2pi/T ix}` (there is a
negative sign because of complex conjugation, I think).

That is the same as projecting onto `cos(2pi/T x) + i sin(2pi/T x)`,
by Euler's formula.

This decomposes `f` into a linear combination of `cos` and `sin` with
appropriate period. Do we need to consider phase shifted versions?

Answer: no. Because any phase shifted version is actually a linear
combination (with weights norm one) of `cos` and `sin`.

# What's with the `i` term?

This feels weird. I feel like I can do a breakdown in terms of:

(1) `cos(2pi/T x)`
(2) `sin(2pi/T x)`

For all `T`. If my function is real valued, then I think this is what
I want to do.

If `f` is complex, then we can make things a little simpler. We can
project onto `e^{2pi/T ix}` to decompose into a complex number. That
complex number will be a linear combination for a phase-shifted
sinusoidal of appropriate period.

## Across the universe

The fourier transform is performed for frequencies `-\inf` to
`\inf`. Previously, we've been working with functions that were
periodic over a finite period.

To do the projection, we had to divide by the norm. Note that `cos`
and `sin` are *not* unit vectors when considered on the range `-pi,
+pi`.

Now, I propose to integrate across all time points. But the norm of
cos is infinite across all points.

Therefore, the fourier transform is only going to work for functions
which "die out" eventually. But they can die out over any period of
time, that's okay.

In particular, functions that "die out" are square integrable. Note
that sine and cosine do not belong to the space of square integrable
functions.

Note that if we know a function has period `T`, we can decompose it
using actually the countable basis of sinusoidals of periods `T/k`. If
we know a function dies out, then we can decompose it using an
uncountable "basis" of sinusoidals with all periods, *except* it's
weird to call this a basis because sinusoidals cannot be decomposed
this way.

## Complex Version: Nicer

Instead, you can represent with exponentials. Consider the
decomposition of `cos(x)`:

    \int_0^{2pi} cos(x) (e^{ix})
    \int_0^{2pi} cos(x) (cos(x) + isin(x))
    \int_0^{2pi} cos^2(x) + i sin(x) cos(x)

Now, we need to use our identities. The first part of the integral is
`pi`. The second part is zero.

But then the same is *also* true for when projecting onto

    e^{-ix}



And when I sum those I get cos.

## TODO: Fourier Series vs Transform

The fourier series just projects onto sinusoidals with period
`2pi/N`. The transform projects onto all frequencies.

The question is: what's the difference? What functions can be
represented with a series, and which need a transform?

TODO: Why does Fourier basis span the space of periodic functions?

TODO: Why do sine/cosine of all periods span the space of square
integrable functions?
