## Using TigerVNC

VNC is a protocol, I believe. Some desktop environments have an option
to allow people to connect to a running desktop via VNC. TigerVNC (and
a number of others) actually start their own "pseudo-X-server" (my
term), which is not run on a GPU or output to a monitor. Insteaed, it
uses regular memory. Then people can connect.

The first thing to do is to update sources: `sudo apt-get
update`. Then you want to install ubuntu-gnome-desktop: `sudo apt-get
install ubuntu-gnome-desktop`. This installs Gnome 3.8.x.

You also want to download TigerVNC from:
https://bintray.com/tigervnc/stable/tigervnc/1.8.0. You install this
locally into your home directory.

When you run the server, they will create a `~/.vnc/` folder. It will
have a password file, but you will need to use SSH to securely protect
your session. More on this later.

There is a `startx` script: this is run instead of whatever Xorg
scripts you have. You can delete everything and replace it with one
line:

    gnome-session --disable-acceleration-check &

If you don't add that flag, it won't run the server and you'll look at
a blank screen. For reference: I found the problem not by inspecting
just the TigerVNC log, but also using `journalctl -b`.

You start and stop TigerVNC like this:

    ~/tigervnc-1.8.0.x86_64/usr/bin/vncserver :1
    ~/tigervnc-1.8.0.x86_64/usr/bin/vncserver -kill :1

From here you can download and run Chrome and Atom: install with `sudo
dpkg -i`. Chrome will ask you to install `libappindicator1`: this is
simple with `apt-get install`. Now, Chrome won't be happy if you try
to run two copies of the application for the same user
simultaneously. But otherwise no problem!

Last, you'll get an annoying dialogue about "color managed device."
The fix is described here:

    https://github.com/TurboVNC/turbovnc/issues/47

## Trying to use X11VNC

I do not recommend this way. X11VNC is a program that lets you connect
over VNC to a running X server. Per above, install
`ubuntu-gnome-desktop`. Then, you need to be able to run an X server
as a user:

    sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-legacy
    sudo usermod -a -G tty ubuntu
    sudo chmod 0660 /dev/tty*

Also, you need to `sudo vim /etc/X11/Xwrapper.config`. Note that this
file only exists if you installed `xserver-xorg-legacy`. Change
`allowed_users=console`:

    allowed_users=anybody

You should now be able to start an X server.

Next, you need to install `x11vnc`:

    sudo apt-get install x11vnc
    x11vnc -storepasswd

At this point, you should be able to run:

    xinit /usr/bin/gnome-session -- :3
    x11vnc -display :3 -usepw

Last, to allow larger resolutions, you want to `sudo vim
/etc/X11/xorg.conf` (it probably won't exist) and add:

    Section "Screen"
        Identifier "My Screen"
        Subsection "Display"
            Virtual 1280 1024
        EndSubSection
    EndSection
